# JavaScript Functions

## 01. Defining Functions

Functions are one of the fundamental building blocks in JavaScript. A function in JavaScript is similar to a procedure—a set of statements
that performs a task or calculates a value, but for a procedure to qualify as a function, it should take some input and return an output where
there is some obvious relationship between the input and the output. To use a function, you must define it somewhere in the scope from which 
you wish to call it.

### 01A. Function Declarations

A **function definition** (also called a function declaration, or function statement) consists of the function keyword, followed by:

- The name of the function
- A list of parameters to the function, enclosed in parentheses and separated by commas.
- The JavaScript statements that define the function, enclosed in curly braces, `{ /* … */ }`.

```
function square(number) {
  return number * number;
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Parameters are essentially passed to functions by value — so if the code within the body of a function assigns a completely new value to a parameter that was passed to the function, the change is not reflected globally or in the code which called that function.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you pass an object as a parameter, if the function changes the object's properties, that change is visible outside the function, as shown in the following example:

```
function myFunc(theObject) {
  theObject.make = "Toyota";
}

const myCar = {
  make: "Honda",
  model: "Accord",
  year: 1998,
};

console.log(myCar.make); // "Honda"
myFunc(myCar);
console.log(myCar.make); // "Toyota"
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When you pass an array as a parameter, if the function changes any of the array's values, that change is visible outside the function, as shown in the following example:

```
function myFunc(theArr) {
  theArr[0] = 30;
}

const arr = [45];

console.log(arr[0]); // 45
myFunc(arr);
console.log(arr[0]); // 30
```

### 01B. Function Expressions

While the function declaration above is syntactically a statement, functions can also be created by a **function expression**.

Such a function can be anonymous; it does not have to have a name. For example, the function square could have been defined as:

```
const square = function (number) {
  return number * number;
};

console.log(square(4)); // 16
```

---


## 02. Function Scope

Variables defined inside a function cannot be accessed from anywhere outside the function, because the variable is defined only
in the scope of the function. However, a function can access all variables and functions defined inside the scope in which it 
is defined.

In other words, a function defined in the global scope can access all variables defined in the global scope. A function
defined inside another function can also access all variables defined in its parent function, and any other variables to which
the parent function has access.

```
// The following variables are defined in the global scope
const num1 = 20;
const num2 = 3;
const name = "Juan";

// This function is defined in the global scope
function multiply() {
  return num1 * num2;
}

console.log(multiply()); // 60

// A nested function example
function getScore() {
  const num1 = 2;
  const num2 = 3;

  function add() {
    return `${name} scored ${num1 + num2}`;
  }

  return add();
}

console.log(getScore()); // "Juan scored 5"
```

---

## 03. Rest Parameters

The rest parameter syntax allows us to represent an indefinite number of arguments as an array.

In the following example, the function multiply uses rest parameters to collect arguments from the second one to the end. The
function then multiplies these by the first argument.

```
function multiply(multiplier, ...theArgs) {
  return theArgs.map((x) => multiplier * x);
}

const arr = multiply(2, 1, 2, 3);
console.log(arr); // [2, 4, 6]

```

---

## 04. Arrow Functions

An arrow function expression is a compact alternative to a traditional function expression:

```
const a = ["Hydrogen", "Helium", "Lithium", "Beryllium"];

const a2 = a.map(function (s) {
  return s.length;
});

console.log(a2); // [8, 6, 7, 9]

const a3 = a.map((s) => s.length);

console.log(a3); // [8, 6, 7, 9]
```

---